---
title: front-end mastery - Immediately Invoked Function Expressions (IIFE)
author: Jordan Binskin
date: '2019-11-04'
categories:
  - front-end
  - javascript
tags:
  - javascript
  - functions
  - closures
---

## Immediately Invoked Function Expressions (IIFE's)

An IIFE ^ is a way in JavaScript to define a function and immediately call it after it has been parsed. When defining an immediately invoked function declaration you are able to omit a name for function - making it an anonymous function (this is similar to what you may be used to doing when passing a function as an argument to another function). 

To achieve writing an anonymous IIFE see the code block example below, it is imperative that the function is wrapped in a pair of parentheses. Otherwise the parser will read the function declaration and the call as two separate things.

~~~javascript

(function() {
  // do something
  var closureBinding = 10;
})();

console.log(closureBinding);
// closureBinding is not defined;

// anonymous IIFE can also be written as:
(function() {

}()); // the function call is now placed inside the enclosing parentheses.

~~~

Other than some other small nuance, they aren't that special in themselves. They can also be named. There power comes in the way they can be used. There is a number of use-cases I see other developers use IIFE.

* To immediately call some functionality without having a named function that could be called again - while also not polluting any of the global space with declarations.

* Was the crux of the 'Revealing Module Pattern' using function scope to encapsulate code that returned a function with access to its outer function scope after returning (commonly referred to as closure). This was before ES6, with the arrival of let/const which allows the creation of a separate scope inside regular blocks. See https://www.jordanbinskin.com/post/2019/10/01/front-end-mastery-amd-vs-commonjs-vs-esmodules/ for more on this pattern and other module solutions.


