---
title: front-end mastery - closure scope
author: Jordan Binskin
date: '2019-09-28'
categories:
  - front-end
  - javascript
tags:
  - closures
  - javascript
---

# Closures

Okay, so if you're reading my blog for the first time this article with quickly address what is a 'closure', or closure scope. 

I've alluded or mention closure's in other articles such as: 
- https://www.jordanbinskin.com/post/2019/11/04/front-end-mastery-immediately-invoked-function-expressions-iife/
- https://www.jordanbinskin.com/post/2019/10/01/front-end-mastery-amd-vs-commonjs-vs-esmodules/

Today I will address them directly, what concepts in JavaScript they relate to, with the hope of both our understandings better.

A closure occurs when a function is enclosed with references to its environment (the more JavaScripty term is lexical scope/environment - the rules of this environment grant  a function access to it's outer scope).

The semantics will vary depend on the developer that you ask, but main benefit of a closure is a function will 'remember' and have access to its enclosing function scope, even after the outer function has returned. The simplest of examples is below:

~~~javascript
function multiplier (multiple) {
  return function (num) {
    debugger;
    return multiple * num;
  }
}

let doubler = multiplier(2);
let tripler = multiplier(3);

doubler(5)
// 10
tripler(5)
// 15
~~~

The function above provides a good practical example closure scope. In this scenario I wanted to create a function that would allow me to easily create functions that act as different multipliers.

I do this by first declaring a function that takes in a multiple as an argument and then returns a second function.

So to set up a function that can double a number that the user provides, I first declare a variable 'doubler' which will be the name of my new function and I pass it a value of 2, as to double a number is to times it by 2.

Now value of doubler is the function which multiplier returns which returns a number multiplied by the multiple. Thanks for the closure scope created, this means that my function that is bound to doubler can still remember the multiple variable passed in to multiplier even after multiplier returns (thanks to the lexicla scope).

I can now use doubler and pass through any number to return it's double.
